So, welcome to this here LineTraceSingleByChannel() video!
Not a particularly sexy name, but a pretty useful result. Let's have a look at what we'll be doing by the end
of it. By the end of it, we will actually be getting logged out the world space location
of what that there cursor's pointing at. 0 if it misses the terrain altogether,
for the sky and otherwise an actual point in the world to aim at. Cool!
So, at the moment, we're getting a unit vector out
of this code, and that's cool, it tells us the world direction
that is the line from the camera through that dot.
but that's about as much use as a chocolate teapot, when it comes to actually having a point in the
world to aim at and try and hit. So, what we're going to do is, we're going
to now line trace through that dot, basically, into the world and see if we hit
anything visible. And the skybox, I'd think out there, does not count as visible,
but everything else, if you can see it you can hit it. So, in the
previous section in Building Escape, we did a line
trace single but I think we did it by object type. This time, we're going to look at a slightly different line trace.
It's going to be LineTraceSingleByChannel. Now, if you don't
remember what the line tracing was all about, take a look at Building Escape. There's some videos in there
that talk about it in some detail. It also references you to some Unreal docs
that talk about line tracing a collisions. They all work under the same kind of
system, which is why it's talking about collision channels. But anyway, this is the method that we're going to
use. So, where in our code is that going to appear? Well, we have
this GetSightRayHitLocation method, and we're saying if we can
find a LookDirection, which we have managed to do, then we should come in,
and I'll move this comment inside the if, and line trace along that LookDirection
and see what we hit, up to some maximum range. So, that's what
we're going to do there. I'm going to stop logging the LookDirection, because we don't
need it anymore, and then, I'm going to challenge you to write the code in here, that
actually goes and does that line trace and reports out where we're hitting in the world.
So that's going to be a nice little challenge for you! It's mainly revision but you're using a different method, that you've never
used before. So here's your challenge slide! Write GetLook
VectorHitLocation() as a method.
That method call
will go in here, so I'll put it in comments. "// GetLookVectorHit
Location() like so, and it's going to take some
parameters. I'm putting it straight in a method, again, to keep this whole method Get
SightRayHitLocation small and so that we don't need to do the painful refactor that you saw me
do before. So, we're going to write a whole new method, called GetLookVectorHitLocation to wrap up that
functionality. make a LineTraceRange()
parameter. So, make a private member called LineTraceRange, probably make it exposed
to the blueprints, and make it default to say 10 kilometers
so that that's the limit of how far out it goes looking for something visible to hit.
Line-trace out to this distance, in the LookDirection.
Trace by ECC_Visibility channel. Basically, if you can
see it you can hit it. And return true if you hit something and
set HitLocation as an OUT parameter, and if nothing's hit
return false and log out to see what you're hitting. So that's it,
go ahead and do that, and remember that the method you're going to be using is this one
here, LineTraceSingleByChannel. You can find it
in Unreal's docs, it's on the screen there, and I'll just pop back to the challenge slide and
leave you to it!
OK, welcome
back! So, let's make this happen!
Firstly, I'm going to write the method directly under here so I can see it, I think,
so I can see what I'm calling. I want to be able to see what I'm calling against parameters, all in one place. So, it's
a bool because I said we're to give a success result. ATankPlayer
Controller class name ::GetLook
VectorHitLocation().
We're actually getting a location in the world here. We need an FVector according
to its... Well, we obviously not according to anything, but we obviously need to know the
LookDirection, so we need to take in the LookDirection and we're going to
send out, through these horrible out parameter things which I still hate but am willing to use,
HitLocation. And this whole method should be const
because well, you shouldn't be changing any member variables. Wicked! So,
that is the signature! Given the signature, let's pop it into the header
file, strip out this syntactic noise as I call it.
By the way, the reason why in a C++ you need to qualify with
the class name like this is because you can actually define multiple classes in a
single .cpp file. We never do, we seem to be always using one .cpp per class
and that's the Unreal way, which is why this thing becomes noise, because
you only ever need it if want, you only would need it if you wanted  multiple
classes in the same .cpp file. But anyway, I digress. That's the
signature of what we're trying to do, and there
is the outline of it. So, we may as well call it straight away, so
a call is going to be here.
Now, we're going to pass in a LookDirection, which we have here and we are going to
pass in a HitLocation as an
out parameter, so we need to have that HitLocation ready to be
set. Well, actually it is ready to be set, because remember it came in here. So, the Hit
Location came into GetSightRayHitLocation, and it's finally going to get set there.
So the LookDirection comes from here.
It's declared here, it is value assigned to
it there. It gets that unit vector remember? We pass that unit vector in here,
and then, we expect it to set this HitLocation. Hard to read isn't it, with all these out parameters,
but that's the way the cookie crumbles here in Unreal.
So, how does the actual method work? Well, we've done this type of thing before. We're
going to need an FHitResult, right, to store our HitResult in. What should we call it?
Let's call it something cryptic like HitResult. Then, we're going to need
a StartLocation. We've got to start somewhere in the world right? it's going to be the camera position,
so let's cryptically call it StartLocation. And the where you get that this
bit may have been tricky for you, but there's lots of ways of finding this camera
but one way is to say PlayerCameraManager. And congratulations if you worked this out for
yourself! GetCameraLocation(). Now look, by the way, if you didn't
work it out for yourself, maybe you want to pause the video again here, because this is the hardest bit of
the challenge was probably finding that camera location. So, if that was the only thing that was stopping
you, then pause the video here and carry on, otherwise let's keep going!
We need an EndLocation so let's call it EndLocation. Now,
what is the EndLocation? Well, it's the StartLocation +
the LookDirection times this range that I was
talking about. Now, let me put some brackets in here now,
so that you are very clear on what bonds with what. We're saying start at the start and then
go out in the LookDirection to the range, and we're going to call it LineTrace
Range. OK, so we don't have LineTraceRange, we haven't
declared that yet. Let's go ahead and declare it!
It's going to be an edit anywhere floating
UPROPERTY I believe. So yeah, UPROPERTY
(EditAnywhere), so the designer can set that value. It's a float because it
doesn't have to be a round number of kilometers, and all these things are expecting floats
anyway. And we want to do a floating point multiplication in here, so that we
get a floating point number out for EndLocation. So, Line
TraceRange = 10 kilometers. So remember, it's in
centimeters this thing, this unit in Unreal,
that we need to go 10 and then we need one, two, three to turn that into
kilometers, and then, one, two more 0's to turn it
from centimeters into meters. So, that's how many 0's you need.
How many 0's exactly is that? It's three for the kilometers,
one for the 0, and another two so we have six 0's in
total. A million centimeters! Sounds like a lot!
OK, so that's that! Now, we have this LineTraceRange, so what do we do next? Well,
we're going to write a slightly awkward bit of code here, but
I think this is the best way I can think of writing it. We're going to say
if.. Let's pseudocode this up for a second. "if (// Line Trace
Succeeds)). And there's going to be a
load of lines of line trace code, so if the line trace succeeds
then what are we going to do? Well, then we're
going to set the HitLocation that comes in, this guy here.
Let's just do it as a comment for now,
and return true. If the
line trace doesn't succeed, we must have got to here,
in which case we'll return false,
if it doesn't hit anything. OK,
so that's all fine. Now, the question comes, where are we
actually going to do this line trace? Well I'm going to do it right inside the if statement. Again, it's a
little bit side-effecty but I need to get you used to reading code like a compiler
reads code and reading code that Unreal writes in their engine, because
as we go through this course, particularly in the AI part, we're going to be diving right here into the source
of the engine and we need to be able to understand their code. And if I teach you
to make code that's all kind of wrapped up and beautified, so that we don't get
scared, then you won't understand engine code, and that will put you in a massive disadvantage.
I'm going to teach you to write code, as I say, in the way that you're going to see things.
What we're going to do, right inside the if statement, is we're going to go get the world, because that's with the context
in which we need to do the line tracing. Then, we're going to LineTrace
SinglebyChannel() OK.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to split this over several lines.
So, so far so good, but the LineTraceSingleByChannel wants some
parameters, and i'm going to take the bold step of putting them here with two indents,
because I think that it's going to work out looking OK. So, Hit
Result. What does it want next?  A start location, which we've already setup
like good boys and girls, and EndLocation.
And finally, we need to know the ECollision query channel
thingy. Right, so what is that? Well it's a static available for us, if
we go for ECollisionChannel::
because we're accessing a static member. ECC_Visibility, that tells us
that I want you to do out and hit anything what is visible. And then, if I
leave the bracket in, something like that, then to me this makes sense.
The only thing we need to finally do is, we need to return the
HitLocation here. So the type
that comes out of this LineTrace is a HitResult, so the way that we get
the HitLocation is we go, the HitResult which is not in itself the vector
that we want, and then, we go dot and see what members its got.
And somewhere in here we should have something
about location. Probably under L? there you go, HitResult.Location;
Now, if we look at that, then that is actually the FVector
type we're looking for. So again, another tricky bit of a challenge may have tripped you up. It's like
well, what comes out of this thing? it's a HitResult that is not a
vector, how do I get it from it? So that's how you do it. Wow, that's been fun
hasn't it? So, let's firstly see if it works, before we then have a quick recap of the code and
a brief celebration, if it works. And if it doesn't work, well then there's
commiserations and lots of fixing to do. I've got to say something while it
compiles. I could just hum! [Hums]
[Hums] There we
go, it's compiled! Let's take a look! Now, all very well, it may be working, but of course,
we're not logging so the HitResult is coming out of Get
LookVectorHitLoaction. We're calling hit vector location. That's
meaning that GetSightRayHitLocation should work, so we should be all the way back
here now at the AimTowarsCrosshair(), and we're
back to HitLocation and it may even work. Let's
try this! HitLocation.ToString(). Yeah, let's see if that works! So, all
I've done is, I've said that actually we've now written all of the sub-methods, all the helper methods, and we should actually
be all the way up here. And the only log that we should be seeing in this entire
file, let's do a search for it while it compiles. Searching in the
Current Document with case sensitivity and without regular expressions
is... There's one there
in AimTowardsCrosshair(). There's another one in BeginPlay(), which is fine. It's fine
to say whether we are or aren't possessing a tank. So
boom! Now, is this feasible, this value this place that it's
sitting?
No, what we've got here is we've still got the camera
location being logged out. So, there's been a simple problem with the
wrong variable name being passed somewhere, so let's just go find that, let's work it all
the way through and see what the problem is. So, let's start from here! Aim
TowardsCrosshair() calls if (GetSightRayHitLocation
(HitLocation)), which we'll find out what the HitLocation
is. So there's a
parameter here which goes and gets the LookDirection
and then passes that into GetLookVectorHitLocation. So,
there's HitLocation again! It comes in here,
and look what
I've done. HitResult.Location, that's all very well that's very nice,
but I never assigned that to HitLocation. Alright, so that's the
sort of thing that can happen. Now, we should be in
business! Let's try a recompile. I'll leave the code of this method on the screen
highlighted for you while it compiles, because that's the destination
code you're looking for, and I want you to make sure you understand how it works. And I
hope you're not too put off by this weird indentation with this if statement; this could all be on one line,
all of this stuff. I could have just laid that out on a single line, and that if statement would look perfectly
normal but it wouldn't be so easy to read.
Ah now, is this feasible? So, where are we in the world? So,
if I click on my PlayerStart point, I think it would be prudent actually in the World
Outliner to set that PlayerStart point to 0, 0, 0, there.
Lift it up off the ground enough that the tank spawns in the world. So now knowing that we're at
0, 0, 0, is it possible that that X location is 2 meters in front of us? Definitely!
Is it possible now that that's 28... What is that
28 kilometers away, sorry 2.8 kilometers away? Definitely!
And is it possible that the Y location
there is just 15 meters to my right? Absolutely, in the Z! Let's
say look at a mountain in the distance and then go up it and see if the Z increases. It does!
And then, look what happens when we get into aiming into space! We get pretty random
values, because we're no longer getting a successful HitLocation.
Really, if we don't get a successful HitLocation, we probably better set
HitLocation to something, even though we're returning false,
I'd rather it was set to FVector 0,
because I don't really want some nasty values
coming out of it. So let's just do that, which means that in the instances where we don't
hit anything visible, the sky as I said isn't considered visible, we're going to get 0,
0, 0, out of it and a false from our method. Whoops!
I think my tank just fell through the floor there!
There you go! So we get 0, 0, 0, which looks much tidier, and then, otherwise we actually
get the world space location of the thing we're aiming at. This is real progress guys!
So congratulations, and I shall see you in the next one!